# Reference
<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

**Classes**

* [`simplib::reboot_notify`](#simplibreboot_notify): This is a simple controller class for global settings related to the 'reboot_notify' custom type
* [`simplib::stages`](#simplibstages): This class expands on the Puppet Stdlib stages to add a few levels that we found necessary when developing various SIMP modules that had glob

**Defined types**

* [`simplib::install`](#simplibinstall): Manage packages based on Hash input  This has been created as a Defined Type so that it can be properly referenced in manifest ordering

**Resource types**

* [`ftpusers`](#ftpusers): Adds all system users to the named file, preserving any other entries currently in the file.
* [`init_ulimit`](#init_ulimit): Please use the ``systemd`` module for systems that support ``systemd``  Update ``ulimit`` settings in init scripts.  The resource name does h
* [`prepend_file_line`](#prepend_file_line): Type that can prepend whole a line to a file if it does not already contain it.  Example:  file_prepend_line { 'sudo_rule':   path => '/etc/s
* [`reboot_notify`](#reboot_notify): Notifies users when a system reboot is required.  This type creates a file at $target the contents of which provide a summary of the reasons 
* [`runlevel`](#runlevel): Changes the system runlevel by re-evaluating the inittab or systemd link. Arguments:  name   - the runlevel to evaluate for the system  persi
* [`script_umask`](#script_umask): Alters the umask settings in the passed file.
* [`simp_file_line`](#simp_file_line): Ensures that a given line is contained within a file.  The implementation matches the full line, including whitespace at the beginning and en

**Functions**

* [`array_include`](#array_include): Determine if the first passed array contains the contents of another array or string.
* [`array_size`](#array_size): Returns the number of elements in an `Array`. If a `String` is passed,   simply returns `1`.  This is in contrast to the Puppet Labs `stdlib`
* [`array_union`](#array_union): Return the union of two `Arrays`.
* [`bracketize`](#bracketize): Add brackets to IP addresses and `Arrays` of IP addresses based on the rules for bracketing IPv6 addresses.  Ignore anything that does not lo
* [`deep_merge`](#deep_merge): Perform a deep merge on two passed `Hashes`.  This code is shamelessly stolen from the guts of `ActiveSupport::CoreExtensions::Hash::DeepMerg
* [`generate_reboot_msg`](#generate_reboot_msg): Generate a reboot message from a passed `Hash`.  Requires a `Hash` of the following form:  ``ruby {   'id'  => 'reason',   'id2' => 'reason2'
* [`get_ports`](#get_ports): Take an `Array` of items that may contain `port` numbers and appropriately return the `port` portion. Works with hostnames, IPv4, and IPv6.
* [`h2n`](#h2n): Takes a single `hostname` and returns the associated IP address if it can determine it.  If it cannot be determined, simply returns the passe
* [`host_is_me`](#host_is_me): Detect if a local system identifier Hostname/IP address is contained in the passed whitespace delimited list.  Whitespace and comma delimiter
* [`inspect`](#inspect): Prints out Puppet warning messages that display the passed variable.  This is mainly meant for debugging purposes.
* [`ip_is_me`](#ip_is_me): Detect if an IP address is contained in the passed whitespace delimited `String`.
* [`ip_to_cron`](#ip_to_cron): Provides a "random" value to `cron` based on the passed `Integer` value.  Used to avoid starting a certain cron job at the same time on all s
* [`ipaddresses`](#ipaddresses): Return an `Array` of all IP addresses known to be associated with the client.  If an argument is passed, and is not `false`, then only return
* [`join_mount_opts`](#join_mount_opts): Merge two sets of `mount` options in a reasonable fashion.  The second set will always override the first.
* [`localuser`](#localuser): Pull a pre-set password from a password list and return an `array` of user details associated with the passed hostname.  If the password star
* [`mapval`](#mapval): This function pulls a mapped value from a text file with the format:  `<key> | <value>`  Only the **last** value matched will be returned
* [`nets2cidr`](#nets2cidr): Take an input `Array` of networks and returns an equivalent `Array` in CIDR notation.  It can also accept a `String` separated by spaces, com
* [`nets2ddq`](#nets2ddq): Take an input `Array` of networks and returns an equivalent `Array` in Dotted Quad notation.  It can also accept a `String` separated by spac
* [`parse_hosts`](#parse_hosts): Take an `Array` of items that may contain port numbers or protocols and return the host information, ports, and protocols.  Works with Hostna
* [`passgen`](#passgen): Generates a random password string for a passed identifier.  Uses `Puppet[:vardir]/simp/environments/$environment/simp_autofiles/gen_passwd/`
* [`rand_cron`](#rand_cron): Provides a 'random' value to `cron` based on the passed `Integer` value.  Used to avoid starting a certain `cron` job at the same time on all
* [`simp_version`](#simp_version): Return the version of SIMP that this server is running
* [`simplib::assert_metadata`](#simplibassert_metadata): Fails a compile if the client system is not compatible with the module's `metadata.json`
* [`simplib::assert_optional_dependency`](#simplibassert_optional_dependency): Fails a compile if the system does not contain a correct version of the required module in the current environment.  Provides a message about
* [`simplib::deprecation`](#simplibdeprecation): Function to print deprecation warnings, logging a warning once for a given key.  Messages can be enabled if the SIMPLIB_LOG_DEPRECATIONS envi
* [`simplib::dlookup`](#simplibdlookup): 
* [`simplib::filtered`](#simplibfiltered): Hiera v5 backend that takes a list of allowed hiera key names, and only returns results from the underlying backend function that match those
* [`simplib::gen_random_password`](#simplibgen_random_password): Generates a random password string.  Terminates catalog compilation if the password cannot be created in the allotted time.
* [`simplib::hash_to_opts`](#simplibhash_to_opts): Turn a hash into a options string, for use in a shell command
* [`simplib::inspect`](#simplibinspect): Prints the passed variable's Ruby type and value for debugging purposes  This uses a ``Notify`` resource to print the information during the 
* [`simplib::ip_to_cron`](#simplibip_to_cron): Transforms an IP address to one or more interval values for `cron`.  This can be used to avoid starting a certain cron job at the same  time 
* [`simplib::ipaddresses`](#simplibipaddresses): Return an `Array` of all IP addresses known to be associated with the client, optionally excluding local addresses.
* [`simplib::join_mount_opts`](#simplibjoin_mount_opts): Merge two sets of `mount` options in a reasonable fashion, giving precedence to the second set.
* [`simplib::knockout`](#simplibknockout): uses the knockout prefix of '--' to remove elements from an array.
* [`simplib::ldap::domain_to_dn`](#simplibldapdomain_to_dn): Generates a LDAP Base DN from a domain
* [`simplib::lookup`](#simpliblookup): A function for falling back to global scope variable lookups when the Puppet 4 ``lookup()`` function cannot find a value.  While ``lookup()``
* [`simplib::mock_data`](#simplibmock_data): A mock data function
* [`simplib::module_exist`](#simplibmodule_exist): Determines if a module exists in the current environment  If passed with an author, such as `simp/simplib` or `simp-simplib`, will return whe
* [`simplib::nets2cidr`](#simplibnets2cidr): Take an input list of networks and returns an equivalent `Array` in CIDR notation.  * Hostnames are passed through untouched. * Terminates ca
* [`simplib::nets2ddq`](#simplibnets2ddq): Tranforms a list of networks into an equivalent array in dotted quad notation.  * CIDR networks are converted to dotted quad notation network
* [`simplib::parse_hosts`](#simplibparse_hosts): Convert an `Array` of items that may contain port numbers or protocols into a structured `Hash` of host information.  * Works with Hostnames 
* [`simplib::passgen`](#simplibpassgen): Generates/retrieves a random password string or its hash for a passed identifier.  * Uses `Puppet.settings[:vardir]/simp/environments/$enviro
* [`simplib::rand_cron`](#simplibrand_cron): Transforms an input string to one or more interval values for `cron`.  This can be used to avoid starting a certain cron job at the same  tim
* [`simplib::strip_ports`](#simplibstrip_ports): Extract list of unique hostnames and/or IP addresses from an `Array` of hosts, each of which may may contain protocols and/or port numbers  T
* [`simplib::to_integer`](#simplibto_integer): Converts the argument into an `Integer`.  Terminates catalog compilation if the argument's class does not respond to the `to_i()` Ruby method
* [`simplib::to_string`](#simplibto_string): Converts the argument into a `String`.
* [`simplib::validate_array_member`](#simplibvalidate_array_member): Validate that an single input is a member of another `Array` or an `Array` input is a subset of another `Array`.  * The comparison can option
* [`simplib::validate_between`](#simplibvalidate_between): Validate that the first value is between the second and third values numerically. The range is inclusive.  Terminates catalog compilation if 
* [`simplib::validate_bool`](#simplibvalidate_bool): Validate that all passed values are either `true`, 'true', `false` or 'false'.  Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.
* [`simplib::validate_deep_hash`](#simplibvalidate_deep_hash): Perform a deep validation on two passed `Hashes`.  * All keys must be defined in the reference `Hash` that is being   validated against. * Un
* [`simplib::validate_net_list`](#simplibvalidate_net_list): Validate that a passed list (`Array` or single `String`) of networks is filled with valid IP addresses, network addresses (CIDR notation), or
* [`simplib::validate_port`](#simplibvalidate_port): Validates whether each passed argument contains valid port(s).  * Each element of each argument must, numerically, be in the   range [1, 6553
* [`simplib::validate_re_array`](#simplibvalidate_re_array): Perform simple validation of a `String`, or `Array` of `Strings`, against one or more regular expressions.  * Derived from the Puppet Labs st
* [`simplib::validate_sysctl_value`](#simplibvalidate_sysctl_value): Validate that the passed value is correct for the passed `sysctl` key.  * If a key is not known, assumes the value is valid. * Terminates cat
* [`simplib::validate_uri_list`](#simplibvalidate_uri_list): Validate that a passed list (`Array` or single `String`) of URIs is valid according to Ruby's URI parser.  * *Caution*:  No scheme (protocol 
* [`simplib_deprecation`](#simplib_deprecation): Function to print deprecation warnings for 3.X functions. The first argument is the uniqueness key, which allows deduping of messages. The se
* [`slice_array`](#slice_array): Split an `Array` into an array of arrays that contain groupings of `max_length` size. This is similar to `each_slice` in newer versions of Ru
* [`strip_ports`](#strip_ports): Take an `Array` of items that may contain port numbers and appropriately return the non-port portion. Works with hostnames, IPv4, and IPv6.
* [`to_integer`](#to_integer): Converts the argument into an `Integer`.  Only works if the passed argument responds to the `to_i()` Ruby method.
* [`to_string`](#to_string): Converts the argument into a `String`.  Only works if the passed argument responds to the `to_s()` Ruby method.
* [`validate_array_member`](#validate_array_member): Validate that the first `String` (or `Array`) passed is a member of the second `Array` passed. An optional third argument of i can be passed,
* [`validate_array_of_hashes`](#validate_array_of_hashes): Validate that the passed argument is either an empty `Array` or an `Array` that only contains `Hashes`.
* [`validate_between`](#validate_between): Validate that the first value is between the second and third values numerically.  This is a pure Ruby comparison, **not** a human comparison
* [`validate_bool_simp`](#validate_bool_simp): Validate that all passed values are either `true` or `false`.  Abort catalog compilation if any value fails this check.  Modified from the st
* [`validate_deep_hash`](#validate_deep_hash): Perform a deep validation on two passed `Hashes`.  The first `Hash` is the one to validate against, and the second is the one being validated
* [`validate_float`](#validate_float): Validates whether or not the passed argument is a float
* [`validate_integer`](#validate_integer): Validates that the passed argument is an `Integer`.
* [`validate_macaddress`](#validate_macaddress): Validate that all passed values are valid MAC addresses.
* [`validate_net_list`](#validate_net_list): Validate that a passed list (`Array` or single `String`) of networks is filled with valid IP addresses or hostnames. Hostnames are checked pe
* [`validate_port`](#validate_port): Validates whether or not the passed argument is a valid port (i.e. between `1` - `65535`).
* [`validate_re_array`](#validate_re_array): Perform simple validation of a `String`, or `Array` of `Strings`, against one or more regular expressions. The first argument of this functio
* [`validate_sysctl_value`](#validate_sysctl_value): Validate that the passed value is correct for the passed `sysctl` key.  If a key is not known, simply returns that the value is valid.
* [`validate_umask`](#validate_umask): Validate that the passed `String` is a valid `umask`
* [`validate_uri_list`](#validate_uri_list): Usage: validate_uri_list([LIST],[<VALID_SCHEMES>])  Validate that a passed list (`Array` or single `String`) of URIs is valid according to Ru

## Classes

### simplib::reboot_notify

This is a simple controller class for global settings related to the
'reboot_notify' custom type

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `simplib::reboot_notify` class.

##### `log_level`

Data type: `Simplib::PuppetLogLevel`

The Puppet log_level to use when generating output

To change the level of the reboot_notify messages add this class
to the class list in hiera and set simplib::reboot_notify::log_level to
the level you want.

* Set to  log_level to``debug`` if you wish to disable output unless you're
  running in debug mode.

Default value: 'notice'

### simplib::stages

This class expands on the Puppet Stdlib stages to add a few levels that we
found necessary when developing various SIMP modules that had global
ramifications.

Primarily, we wanted to ensure that anyone using the stdlib stages was not
tripped up by any of our modules that may enable, or disable, various system,
components; particularly ones that require a reboot.

Added Stages:

  * ``simp_prep`` -> Comes before stdlib's ``setup``
  * ``simp_finalize`` -> Comes after stdlib's ``deploy``

## Defined types

### simplib::install

Manage packages based on Hash input

This has been created as a Defined Type so that it can be properly referenced
in manifest ordering

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `simplib::install` defined type.

##### `packages`

Data type: `Hash[String[1], Optional[Hash]]`

Hash of the packages to install

* If just a key is provided, will apply `package_ensure` to the item
* A value may be provided to the package name key that will be passed along
  as the arguments for resource creation.
* A special entry called `defaults` can be provided that will set the
  default package options for all packages in the `Hash`

@example Adding a package to be installed
  simplib::install({ 'my_package' => undef })

##### `defaults`

Data type: `Hash[String[1], String[1]]`

A `Hash` of default parameters to apply to all `$packages`

* This will be overridden by any options applied to individual packages

@example Adding some packages with defaults
  simplib::install(
    # The package list
    {
      'pkg1' => {
        'ensure' => 'installed'
      },
      'pkg2' => undef
    },
    # The defaults
    {
      'ensure'      => 'latest',
      'configfiles' => 'replace'
    }
  )

Default value: { 'ensure' => 'present' }

## Resource types

### ftpusers

Adds all system users to the named file, preserving any other
entries currently in the file.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `ftpusers` type.

##### `to_write`

Ignored, auto-populated from /etc/passwd

Default value: default

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `ftpusers` type.

##### `name`

namevar

The file to which to write the values

##### `min_id`

The UID below which all values will be considered system users

Default value: 500

##### `always_deny`

Entries to always add to the file

Default value: ['nobody','nfsnobody']

### init_ulimit

Please use the ``systemd`` module for systems that support ``systemd``

Update ``ulimit`` settings in init scripts.

The resource name does have to be unique but is meaningless.

Valid ``limit_type`` names are:

  * b|socket_buffer_size
  * c|max_core_size
  * d|max_data_segment
  * e|max_nice
  * f|max_file_size
  * i|max_pending_signals
  * l|max_memory_lock_size
  * m|max_resident_set_size
  * n|max_open_files (default)
  * p|max_queue_size
  * r|max_real_time_pri
  * s|max_stack_size
  * t|max_cpu_time
  * u|max_num_procs
  * v|max_virt_memory
  * x|max_file_locks
  * T|max_threads

All of these are explained in the ``ulimit`` section of ``bash_builtins(1)``

The parameter names are taken from the descriptive field names used in
``limits.conf``.

#### Examples

##### Long Names

```puppet

init_ulimit { 'rsyslog':
  ensure     => 'present',
  limit_type => 'both'
  item       => 'max_open_files',
  value      => 'unlimited'
}
```

##### Short Names

```puppet

init_ulimit { 'rsyslog':
  item       => 'n',
  value      => 'unlimited'
}
```

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `init_ulimit` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: present, absent

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: present

##### `value`

Valid values: hard, soft, unlimited, /^\d+$/

The value to which to set the new limit.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `init_ulimit` type.

##### `name`

A unique name for the resource

##### `target`

namevar

The service that will be modified. If you specify a full path, that will be used instead.

##### `limit_type`

Valid values: soft, hard, both

The limit type: hard|soft|both

Default value: both

##### `item`

namevar

The system limit resource to modify

Default value: max_open_files

### prepend_file_line

Type that can prepend whole a line to a file if it does not already contain it.

Example:

file_prepend_line { 'sudo_rule':
  path => '/etc/sudoers',
  line => '%admin ALL=(ALL) ALL',
}

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `prepend_file_line` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: present

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: present

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `prepend_file_line` type.

##### `name`

namevar

arbitrary name used as identity

##### `line`

The line to be prepended to the path.

##### `path`

File to possibly prepend a line to.

### reboot_notify

Notifies users when a system reboot is required.

This type creates a file at $target the contents of which
provide a summary of the reasons why the system requires a
reboot.

NOTE: This type will *only* register entries on refresh. Any
other use of the type will not report the necessary reboot.

A reboot notification will be printed at each puppet run until
the system is successfully rebooted.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `reboot_notify` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: present, absent

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: present

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `reboot_notify` type.

##### `name`

namevar

The item that is being modified that requires a reboot

##### `reason`

An optional reason for rebooting

Default value: modified

##### `control_only`

Valid values: `true`, `false`, yes, no

This resource is only for control and should not add an item to the notification list

You may only have ONE resource with this set to `true` in your catalog

Default value: `false`

##### `log_level`

Valid values: alert, crit, debug, notice, emerg, err, info, warning

Set the message log level for notifications

This is only active with :control_only set to `true`

Default value: notice

### runlevel

Changes the system runlevel by re-evaluating the inittab or systemd link.
Arguments:

name
  - the runlevel to evaluate for the system

persist
  - boolean value that determines whether or not to set as the default runlevel of the system

Example:

    runlevel { '3': persist => true, }

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `runlevel` type.

##### `level`

Valid values: /^[1-5]$/, rescue, multi-user, graphical, default

The target runlevel of the system. Defaults to what is specified in :name

Default value: default

##### `persist`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Whether or not to save the runlevel as default.

Default value: true

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `runlevel` type.

##### `name`

Valid values: /^[1-5]$/, rescue, multi-user, graphical

namevar

The target runlevel of the system

##### `transition_timeout`

Valid values: /^\d+$/

How many seconds to wait for a runlevel switch before failing

Default value: 60

### script_umask

Alters the umask settings in the passed file.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `script_umask` type.

##### `umask`

Valid values: /^[0-7]{3,4}$/

The umask that should be set in the target file.

Default value: 077

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `script_umask` type.

##### `name`

namevar

The file to alter.

### simp_file_line

Ensures that a given line is contained within a file.  The implementation
matches the full line, including whitespace at the beginning and end.  If
the line is not contained in the given file, Puppet will add the line to
ensure the desired state.  Multiple resources may be declared to manage
multiple lines in the same file.

Example:

    simp_file_line { 'sudo_rule':
      path => '/etc/sudoers',
      line => '%sudo ALL=(ALL) ALL',
    }
    simp_file_line { 'sudo_rule_nopw':
      path => '/etc/sudoers',
      line => '%sudonopw ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL',
    }

In this example, Puppet will ensure both of the specified lines are
contained in the file /etc/sudoers.

This is an enhancement to the stdlib file_line that allows for the
following additional options:
  * prepend     => [binary] Prepend the line instead of appending it if not
                   using 'match'
  * deconflict  => [binary] Do not execute if there is a file resource that
                   already manipulates the content of the target file.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `simp_file_line` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: present, absent

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: present

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `simp_file_line` type.

##### `name`

namevar

An arbitrary name used as the identity of the resource.

##### `match`

An optional regular expression to run against existing lines in the file.
If a match is found, we replace that line rather than adding a new line.

##### `line`

The line to be added to the file located by the path parameter.

##### `path`

The file Puppet will ensure contains the line specified by the line parameter.

##### `deconflict`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Do not execute this type if there is a file type that already manages the
content of the target file unless $replace == false

Default value: `false`

##### `prepend`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Prepend the line to the file if not using match

Default value: `false`

## Functions

### array_include

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Determine if the first passed array contains the contents of another array or string.

#### `array_include()`

Determine if the first passed array contains the contents of another array or string.

Returns: `Boolean`

### array_size

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Returns the number of elements in an `Array`. If a `String` is passed,
  simply returns `1`.

This is in contrast to the Puppet Labs `stdlib` `size()` function which
returns the size of an `Array` or the length of a `String` when called.

#### `array_size()`

Returns the number of elements in an `Array`. If a `String` is passed,
  simply returns `1`.

This is in contrast to the Puppet Labs `stdlib` `size()` function which
returns the size of an `Array` or the length of a `String` when called.

Returns: `Integer`

### array_union

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Return the union of two `Arrays`.

#### `array_union()`

Return the union of two `Arrays`.

Returns: `Array`

### bracketize

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Add brackets to IP addresses and `Arrays` of IP addresses based on the
rules for bracketing IPv6 addresses.

Ignore anything that does not look like an IPv6 address.

#### `bracketize()`

Add brackets to IP addresses and `Arrays` of IP addresses based on the
rules for bracketing IPv6 addresses.

Ignore anything that does not look like an IPv6 address.

Returns: `Variant[String, Array[String]]`

### deep_merge

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Perform a deep merge on two passed `Hashes`.

This code is shamelessly stolen from the guts of
`ActiveSupport::CoreExtensions::Hash::DeepMerge` and munged together with
the Puppet Labs `stdlib` `merge()` function.

#### `deep_merge()`

Perform a deep merge on two passed `Hashes`.

This code is shamelessly stolen from the guts of
`ActiveSupport::CoreExtensions::Hash::DeepMerge` and munged together with
the Puppet Labs `stdlib` `merge()` function.

Returns: `Hash`

### generate_reboot_msg

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Generate a reboot message from a passed `Hash`.

Requires a `Hash` of the following form:

``ruby
{
  'id'  => 'reason',
  'id2' => 'reason2',
  ...
}
``

Will return a message such as:

``
A system reboot is required due to:
  id => reason
  id2 => reason2
``

#### `generate_reboot_msg()`

Generate a reboot message from a passed `Hash`.

Requires a `Hash` of the following form:

``ruby
{
  'id'  => 'reason',
  'id2' => 'reason2',
  ...
}
``

Will return a message such as:

``
A system reboot is required due to:
  id => reason
  id2 => reason2
``

Returns: `Strin` Strin

### get_ports

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Take an `Array` of items that may contain `port` numbers and
appropriately return the `port` portion. Works with hostnames, IPv4,
and IPv6.

#### `get_ports()`

Take an `Array` of items that may contain `port` numbers and
appropriately return the `port` portion. Works with hostnames, IPv4,
and IPv6.

Returns: `Array[Strin` Array[Strin

### h2n

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Takes a single `hostname` and returns the associated IP address if it
can determine it.

If it cannot be determined, simply returns the passed hostname.

#### `h2n()`

Takes a single `hostname` and returns the associated IP address if it
can determine it.

If it cannot be determined, simply returns the passed hostname.

Returns: `Stri` Stri

### host_is_me

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Detect if a local system identifier Hostname/IP address is contained in the
passed whitespace delimited list.

Whitespace and comma delimiters and passed `Arrays` are accepted.
`127.0.0.1` and `::1` are never matched, use `localhost` or
`localhost6` for that if necessary.

#### `host_is_me()`

Detect if a local system identifier Hostname/IP address is contained in the
passed whitespace delimited list.

Whitespace and comma delimiters and passed `Arrays` are accepted.
`127.0.0.1` and `::1` are never matched, use `localhost` or
`localhost6` for that if necessary.

Returns: `Variant[String, Arra` Variant[String, Arra

### inspect

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Prints out Puppet warning messages that display the passed variable.

This is mainly meant for debugging purposes.

#### `inspect()`

Prints out Puppet warning messages that display the passed variable.

This is mainly meant for debugging purposes.

Returns: `N` N

### ip_is_me

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Detect if an IP address is contained in the passed whitespace delimited
`String`.

#### `ip_is_me()`

Detect if an IP address is contained in the passed whitespace delimited
`String`.

Returns: `Boole` Boole

### ip_to_cron

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Provides a "random" value to `cron` based on the passed `Integer` value.

Used to avoid starting a certain cron job at the same time on all servers.

If used with no parameters, it will return a single value between `0-59`
first argument is the occurrence within a timeframe, for example if you
want it to run `2` times per hour the second argument is the timeframe,
by default its `60 minutes`, but it could also be `24 hours` etc...

Pulled from: http://projects.puppetlabs.com/projects/puppet/wiki/Cron_Patterns/8/diff

  * Author: ohadlevy@gmail.com
  * License: None

#### `ip_to_cron()`

Provides a "random" value to `cron` based on the passed `Integer` value.

Used to avoid starting a certain cron job at the same time on all servers.

If used with no parameters, it will return a single value between `0-59`
first argument is the occurrence within a timeframe, for example if you
want it to run `2` times per hour the second argument is the timeframe,
by default its `60 minutes`, but it could also be `24 hours` etc...

Pulled from: http://projects.puppetlabs.com/projects/puppet/wiki/Cron_Patterns/8/diff

  * Author: ohadlevy@gmail.com
  * License: None

Returns: `Variant[Integer[0,59], Array[Integer[0,59], Integer[0,23]]]`

### ipaddresses

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Return an `Array` of all IP addresses known to be associated with the
client.

If an argument is passed, and is not `false`, then only return
non-local addresses.

#### `ipaddresses()`

Return an `Array` of all IP addresses known to be associated with the
client.

If an argument is passed, and is not `false`, then only return
non-local addresses.

Returns: `Array[Strin` Array[Strin

### join_mount_opts

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Merge two sets of `mount` options in a reasonable fashion.

The second set will always override the first.

#### `join_mount_opts()`

Merge two sets of `mount` options in a reasonable fashion.

The second set will always override the first.

Returns: `Array[Strin` Array[Strin

### localuser

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Pull a pre-set password from a password list and return an `array` of
user details associated with the passed hostname.

If the password starts with the string `$1$` and the length is `34`
characters, then it will be assumed to be an `MD5` hash to be directly
applied to the system.

If the password is in plain text form, then it will be hashed and stored
back into the source file for future use.  The plain text version will be
commented out in the file.

Lines beginning with the `#` symbol are ignored and commas `,` are not
allowed in usernames or hostnames though any characters are allowed in
passwords.

`homedir` is the home directory of the user and is optional. By default,
the system will choose the home directory.

The function will return a `String` with the following contents:

`[attr]<username>,MD5-based password hash with random salt`

Hostname Ruby regular expressions are fully supported. The following
formats are allowed:

  * /regex/opts,<username>
  * /regex/,<username>
  * regex,<username>
  * *.<domain>,<username>
  * fqdn,<username>

#### `localuser(Stdlib::Absolutepath $filename, Any $hostname)`

Pull a pre-set password from a password list and return an `array` of
user details associated with the passed hostname.

If the password starts with the string `$1$` and the length is `34`
characters, then it will be assumed to be an `MD5` hash to be directly
applied to the system.

If the password is in plain text form, then it will be hashed and stored
back into the source file for future use.  The plain text version will be
commented out in the file.

Lines beginning with the `#` symbol are ignored and commas `,` are not
allowed in usernames or hostnames though any characters are allowed in
passwords.

`homedir` is the home directory of the user and is optional. By default,
the system will choose the home directory.

The function will return a `String` with the following contents:

`[attr]<username>,MD5-based password hash with random salt`

Hostname Ruby regular expressions are fully supported. The following
formats are allowed:

  * /regex/opts,<username>
  * /regex/,<username>
  * regex,<username>
  * *.<domain>,<username>
  * fqdn,<username>

Returns: `String`

##### `filename`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

path to the file containing the local users

##### `hostname`

Data type: `Any`

host that you are trying to match against

### mapval

Type: Ruby 3.x API

This function pulls a mapped value from a text file with the format:

`<key> | <value>`

Only the **last** value matched will be returned

#### `mapval(String $regex, Stdlib::Absolutepath $filename)`

This function pulls a mapped value from a text file with the format:

`<key> | <value>`

Only the **last** value matched will be returned

Returns: `Stri` Stri

##### `regex`

Data type: `String`

Ruby regular expression that will be mapped.
Do not add starting `^` or ending `$`

##### `filename`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The filename from which to pull the value

### nets2cidr

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Take an input `Array` of networks and returns an equivalent `Array` in
CIDR notation.

It can also accept a `String` separated by spaces, commas, or semicolons.

#### `nets2cidr(Variant[Array[String], String] $networks)`

Take an input `Array` of networks and returns an equivalent `Array` in
CIDR notation.

It can also accept a `String` separated by spaces, commas, or semicolons.

Returns: `Variant[Array[String], Strin` Variant[Array[String], Strin

##### `networks`

Data type: `Variant[Array[String], String]`



### nets2ddq

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Take an input `Array` of networks and returns an equivalent `Array` in
Dotted Quad notation.

It can also accept a `String` separated by spaces, commas, or semicolons.

#### `nets2ddq(Variant[Array[String], String] $networks)`

Take an input `Array` of networks and returns an equivalent `Array` in
Dotted Quad notation.

It can also accept a `String` separated by spaces, commas, or semicolons.

Returns: `Variant[Array[String], Strin` Variant[Array[String], Strin

##### `networks`

Data type: `Variant[Array[String], String]`



### parse_hosts

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Take an `Array` of items that may contain port numbers or protocols and
return the host information, ports, and protocols.

Works with Hostnames as well as IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.

**NOTE:** IPv6 addresses will be returned normalized with square brackets
around them for clarity.

#### `parse_hosts()`

Take an `Array` of items that may contain port numbers or protocols and
return the host information, ports, and protocols.

Works with Hostnames as well as IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.

**NOTE:** IPv6 addresses will be returned normalized with square brackets
around them for clarity.

Returns: `Array[Strin` Array[Strin

### passgen

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Generates a random password string for a passed identifier.

Uses `Puppet[:vardir]/simp/environments/$environment/simp_autofiles/gen_passwd/`
as the destination directory.

The minimum length password that this function will return is `6`
characters.

  Arguments: identifier, <modifier hash>; in that order.

#### `passgen(String $identifier, Hash $modifier_hash)`

Generates a random password string for a passed identifier.

Uses `Puppet[:vardir]/simp/environments/$environment/simp_autofiles/gen_passwd/`
as the destination directory.

The minimum length password that this function will return is `6`
characters.

  Arguments: identifier, <modifier hash>; in that order.

Returns: `Stri` Stri

##### `identifier`

Data type: `String`

Unique `String` to identify the password usage

##### `modifier_hash`

Data type: `Hash`

May contain any of the following options:

  * `last` => `false`(*) or `true`
     * Return the last generated password

  * `length` => `Integer`
     * Length of the new password

  * `hash` => `false`(*), `true`, `md5`, `sha256` (true), `sha512`
     * Return a `Hash` of the password instead of the password itself.

  * `complexity` => `0`(*), `1`, `2`
    * `0` => Use only Alphanumeric characters in your password (safest)
    * `1` => Add reasonably safe symbols
    * `2` => Printable ASCII

  **private options:**

  * `password` => contains the string representation of the password to hash (used for testing)
  * `salt` => contains the string literal salt to use (used for testing)
  * `complex_only` => use only the characters explicitly added by the complexity rules (used for testing)

If no, or an invalid, second argument is provided then it will return
the currently stored `String`.

### rand_cron

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Provides a 'random' value to `cron` based on the passed `Integer` value.

Used to avoid starting a certain `cron` job at the same time on all
servers.

If used with no parameters, it will return a single value between `0-59`
first argument is the occurrence within a timeframe, for example if you
want it to run `2` times per hour the second argument is the timeframe,
by default its `60` minutes, but it could also be `24` hours etc

Based on: http://projects.puppetlabs.com/projects/puppet/wiki/Cron_Patterns/8/diff

  * Author: ohadlevy@gmail.com
  * License: None Posted

#### `rand_cron(String $modifier, Integer $occurs, Integer $scope)`

Provides a 'random' value to `cron` based on the passed `Integer` value.

Used to avoid starting a certain `cron` job at the same time on all
servers.

If used with no parameters, it will return a single value between `0-59`
first argument is the occurrence within a timeframe, for example if you
want it to run `2` times per hour the second argument is the timeframe,
by default its `60` minutes, but it could also be `24` hours etc

Based on: http://projects.puppetlabs.com/projects/puppet/wiki/Cron_Patterns/8/diff

  * Author: ohadlevy@gmail.com
  * License: None Posted

Returns: `Variant[Integer[0,59], Array[Integer[0,59], Integer[0,23]]]`

##### `modifier`

Data type: `String`

Input range modifier

##### `occurs`

Data type: `Integer`

How many values to return

##### `scope`

Data type: `Integer`

Top range of randomly generated number

### simp_version

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Return the version of SIMP that this server is running

#### `simp_version()`

Return the version of SIMP that this server is running

Returns: `Stri` Stri

### simplib::assert_metadata

Type: Puppet Language

Fails a compile if the client system is not compatible with the module's
`metadata.json`

#### `simplib::assert_metadata(String[1] $module_name, Optional[Struct[{
    os => Optional[Struct[{
      validate => Optional[Boolean],
      options  => Struct[{
        release_match => Enum['none','full','major']
      }]
    }]]
  }]] $options = simplib::lookup('simplib::assert_metadata::options', { 'default_value' => undef }))`

Fails a compile if the client system is not compatible with the module's
`metadata.json`

Returns: `None`

##### `module_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the module that should be checked

##### `options`

Data type: `Optional[Struct[{
    os => Optional[Struct[{
      validate => Optional[Boolean],
      options  => Struct[{
        release_match => Enum['none','full','major']
      }]
    }]]
  }]]`

Behavior modifiers for the function
* Can be set using `simplib::assert_metadata::options` in the `lookup`
  stack

**Options**

* enable => If set to `false` disable all validation
* os
    * validate => Whether or not to validate the OS settings
    * options
        * release_match
          * none  -> No match on minor release (default)
          * full  -> Full release must match
          * major -> Only the major release must match

### simplib::assert_optional_dependency

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Fails a compile if the system does not contain a correct version of the
required module in the current environment.

Provides a message about exactly which version of the module is required.

#### `simplib::assert_optional_dependency(String[1] $source_module, Optional[String[1]] $target_module, Optional[String[1]] $dependency_tree)`

Fails a compile if the system does not contain a correct version of the
required module in the current environment.

Provides a message about exactly which version of the module is required.

Returns: `None`

##### `source_module`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the module containing the dependency information (usually the
module that this function is being called from)

##### `target_module`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

The target module to check. If not specified, all optional dependencies
in the tree will be checked.

* This may optionally be the full module name with the author in
  `author/module` form which allows for different logic paths that can use
  multiple vendor modules

##### `dependency_tree`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

The root of the dependency tree in the module's `metadata.json` that
contains the optional dependencies.

* Nested levels should be separated by colons (`:`)

### simplib::deprecation

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Function to print deprecation warnings, logging a warning once
for a given key.

Messages can be enabled if the SIMPLIB_LOG_DEPRECATIONS
environment variable is set to 'true'

#### `simplib::deprecation(String $key, String $message)`

Function to print deprecation warnings, logging a warning once
for a given key.

Messages can be enabled if the SIMPLIB_LOG_DEPRECATIONS
environment variable is set to 'true'

Returns: `Nil`

##### `key`

Data type: `String`

Uniqueness key, which is used to dedupe messages.

##### `message`

Data type: `String`

Message to be printed, to which file and line
information will be appended, if available.

### simplib::dlookup

Type: Ruby 4.x API

The simplib::dlookup function.

#### `simplib::dlookup(String[1] $define_id, String[1] $param, Optional[Any] $options)`

The literal unique identifier of the defined type resource ('mydef::global'
in the examples)

Returns: `Any` The discovered data from Hiera

##### `define_id`

Data type: `String[1]`



##### `param`

Data type: `String[1]`

The parameter that you wish to look up

##### `options`

Data type: `Optional[Any]`

Hash of options for regular ``lookup()``

* This **must** follow the syntax rules for the
Puppet ``lookup( [<NAME>], <OPTIONS HASH> )`` version of ``lookup()``
* No other formats are supported!

#### `simplib::dlookup(String[1] $define_id, String[1] $param, String[1] $resource_title, Optional[Any] $options)`

The literal unique identifier of the defined type resource ('mydef::global'
in the examples)

Returns: `Any` The discovered data from Hiera

##### `define_id`

Data type: `String[1]`



##### `param`

Data type: `String[1]`

The parameter that you wish to look up

##### `resource_title`

Data type: `String[1]`

The $title of the resource

##### `options`

Data type: `Optional[Any]`

Hash of options for regular ``lookup()``

* This **must** follow the syntax rules for the
Puppet ``lookup( [<NAME>], <OPTIONS HASH> )`` version of ``lookup()``
* No other formats are supported!

### simplib::filtered

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Hiera v5 backend that takes a list of allowed hiera key names, and only
returns results from the underlying backend function that match those keys.

This allows hiera data to be delegated to end users in a multi-tenant
environment without allowing them the ability to override every hiera data
point (and potentially break systems)

#### `simplib::filtered(Hash $options, Puppet::LookupContext $context)`

The simplib::filtered function.

Returns: `Hash`

##### `options`

Data type: `Hash`



##### `context`

Data type: `Puppet::LookupContext`



#### `simplib::filtered(String $key, Hash $options, Puppet::LookupContext $context)`

The simplib::filtered function.

Returns: `Hash`

##### `key`

Data type: `String`



##### `options`

Data type: `Hash`



##### `context`

Data type: `Puppet::LookupContext`



### simplib::gen_random_password

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Generates a random password string.

Terminates catalog compilation if the password cannot be created
in the allotted time.

#### `simplib::gen_random_password(Integer[8] $length, Optional[Integer[0,2]] $complexity, Optional[Boolean] $complex_only, Optional[Variant[Integer[0],Float[0]]] $timeout_seconds)`

Generates a random password string.

Terminates catalog compilation if the password cannot be created
in the allotted time.

Returns: `String` Generated password

Raises:
* `if` password cannot be created within allotted time

##### `length`

Data type: `Integer[8]`

Length of the new password.

##### `complexity`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[0,2]]`

Specifies the types of characters to be used in the password
* `0` => Use only Alphanumeric characters (safest)
* `1` => Use Alphanumeric characters and reasonably safe symbols
* `2` => Use any printable ASCII characters

##### `complex_only`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Use only the characters explicitly added by the complexity rules

##### `timeout_seconds`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[Integer[0],Float[0]]]`

Maximum time allotted to generate
the password; a value of 0 disables the timeout

### simplib::hash_to_opts

Type: Puppet Language

Turn a hash into a options string, for use in a shell command

#### `simplib::hash_to_opts(Hash[String,Variant[Array,String,Numeric,Boolean,Undef]] $input, Struct[{
    Optional[connector] => String[1],
    Optional[prefix]    => String[1],
    Optional[repeat]    => Enum['comma','repeat'],
    Optional[delimiter] => String[1],
  }] $opts = {})`

Turn a hash into a options string, for use in a shell command

Returns: `String`

##### `input`

Data type: `Hash[String,Variant[Array,String,Numeric,Boolean,Undef]]`

Input hash, with Strings as keys and either a String, Array,
Numeric, Boolean, or Undef as a value.

##### `opts`

Data type: `Struct[{
    Optional[connector] => String[1],
    Optional[prefix]    => String[1],
    Optional[repeat]    => Enum['comma','repeat'],
    Optional[delimiter] => String[1],
  }]`

Options hash. It only takes 3 keys, none of them required:
* ``connector``: String that joins each key and value pair. Defaults to '='
* ``prefix``: String that prefixes each key value pair. Defaults to '--'
* ``delimiter``: When a value is an array, the string that is used to
  deliminate each item. Defaults to ','
* ``repeat``: Whether to return array values as a deliminated string,
  or by repeating the option with each unique value

### simplib::inspect

Type: Puppet Language

Prints the passed variable's Ruby type and value for debugging purposes

This uses a ``Notify`` resource to print the information during the client
run.

class my_test(
  String $var1,
  Hash   $var2
)
{
  simplib::inspect('var1')
  simplib::inspect('var2')
  ...
}

#### `simplib::inspect(String $var_name, Enum['json','yaml', 'oneline_json'] $output_type = 'json')`

Prints the passed variable's Ruby type and value for debugging purposes

This uses a ``Notify`` resource to print the information during the client
run.

class my_test(
  String $var1,
  Hash   $var2
)
{
  simplib::inspect('var1')
  simplib::inspect('var2')
  ...
}

Returns: `None`

##### `var_name`

Data type: `String`

The actual name of the variable, fully scoped, as a ``String``

##### `output_type`

Data type: `Enum['json','yaml', 'oneline_json']`

The format that you wish to use to display the output during the
run. 'json' and 'yaml' result in multi-line message content.
'oneline_json' results in single-line message content.

### simplib::ip_to_cron

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Transforms an IP address to one or more interval values for `cron`.
 This can be used to avoid starting a certain cron job at the same
 time on all servers.

#### `simplib::ip_to_cron(Optional[Integer[1]] $occurs, Optional[Integer[1]] $max_value, Optional[IpToCronAlgorithm] $algorithm, Optional[Simplib::IP] $ip)`

Transforms an IP address to one or more interval values for `cron`.
 This can be used to avoid starting a certain cron job at the same
 time on all servers.

Returns: `Array[Integer]` Array of integers suitable for use in the
``minute`` or ``hour`` cron field.

##### `occurs`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[1]]`

The occurrence within an interval, i.e., the number of values to
be generated for the interval.

##### `max_value`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[1]]`

The maximum value for the interval.  The values generated will
be in the inclusive range [0, max_value].

##### `algorithm`

Data type: `Optional[IpToCronAlgorithm]`

When 'ip_mod', the modulus of the IP number is used as the basis
for the returned values.  This algorithm works well to create
cron job intervals for multiple hosts, when the number of hosts
exceeds the `max_value` and the hosts have largely, linearly-
assigned IP addresses.

When 'sha256', a random number generated using the IP address
string is the basis for the returned values.  This algorithm
works well to create cron job intervals for multiple hosts,
when the number of hosts is less than the `max_value` or the
hosts do not have linearly-assigned IP addresses.

##### `ip`

Data type: `Optional[Simplib::IP]`

The IP address to use as the basis for the generated values.
When `nil`, the 'ipaddress' fact (IPv4) is used.

### simplib::ipaddresses

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Return an `Array` of all IP addresses known to be associated with the
client, optionally excluding local addresses.

#### `simplib::ipaddresses(Optional[Boolean] $only_remote)`

Return an `Array` of all IP addresses known to be associated with the
client, optionally excluding local addresses.

Returns: `Array[String]` List of IP addresses for the client

##### `only_remote`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Whether to exclude local addresses
from the return value (e.g., '127.0.0.1').

### simplib::join_mount_opts

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Merge two sets of `mount` options in a reasonable fashion, giving
precedence to the second set.

#### `simplib::join_mount_opts(Array[String] $system_mount_opts, Array[String] $new_mount_opts)`

Merge two sets of `mount` options in a reasonable fashion, giving
precedence to the second set.

Returns: `String` Merged options string in which `new_mount_opts`
mount options take precedence; options are comma delimited

##### `system_mount_opts`

Data type: `Array[String]`

System mount options

##### `new_mount_opts`

Data type: `Array[String]`

New mount options, which will override
`system_mount_opts` when there are conflicts

### simplib::knockout

Type: Puppet Language

uses the knockout prefix of '--' to remove elements from an array.

#### `simplib::knockout(Array $array)`

uses the knockout prefix of '--' to remove elements from an array.

Returns: `Array` Resulting array.

##### `array`

Data type: `Array`

The array to knockout

### simplib::ldap::domain_to_dn

Type: Puppet Language

Generates a LDAP Base DN from a domain

#### `simplib::ldap::domain_to_dn(String $domain = $facts['domain'], Boolean $downcase_attributes = false)`

Generates a LDAP Base DN from a domain

Returns: `String`

##### `domain`

Data type: `String`

The domain to convert, defaults to the ``domain`` fact

##### `downcase_attributes`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to downcase the LDAP attributes

  * Different tools have bugs where they cannot, handle
    both upcased and downcased LDAP attribute elements

### simplib::lookup

Type: Ruby 4.x API

A function for falling back to global scope variable lookups when the
Puppet 4 ``lookup()`` function cannot find a value.

While ``lookup()`` will stop at the back-end data sources,
``simplib::lookup()`` will check the global scope first to see if the
variable has been defined.

This means that you can pre-declare a class and/or use an ENC and look up the
variable whether it is declared this way or via Hiera or some other back-end.

#### `simplib::lookup(String $param, Optional[Any] $options)`

A function for falling back to global scope variable lookups when the
Puppet 4 ``lookup()`` function cannot find a value.

While ``lookup()`` will stop at the back-end data sources,
``simplib::lookup()`` will check the global scope first to see if the
variable has been defined.

This means that you can pre-declare a class and/or use an ENC and look up the
variable whether it is declared this way or via Hiera or some other back-end.

Returns: `Any` The value that is found in the system for the passed
parameter.

##### `param`

Data type: `String`

The parameter that you wish to look up

##### `options`

Data type: `Optional[Any]`

Hash of options for regular ``lookup()``

* This **must** follow the syntax rules for the
Puppet ``lookup( [<NAME>], <OPTIONS HASH> )`` version of ``lookup()``
* No other formats are supported!

### simplib::mock_data

Type: Ruby 4.x API

A mock data function

#### `simplib::mock_data(Hash $options, Puppet::LookupContext $context)`

The simplib::mock_data function.

Returns: `Any`

##### `options`

Data type: `Hash`



##### `context`

Data type: `Puppet::LookupContext`



#### `simplib::mock_data(String $key, Hash $options, Puppet::LookupContext $context)`

The simplib::mock_data function.

Returns: `Any`

##### `key`

Data type: `String`



##### `options`

Data type: `Hash`



##### `context`

Data type: `Puppet::LookupContext`



### simplib::module_exist

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Determines if a module exists in the current environment

If passed with an author, such as `simp/simplib` or `simp-simplib`, will
return whether or not that *specific* module exists.

#### `simplib::module_exist(String[1] $module_name)`

Determines if a module exists in the current environment

If passed with an author, such as `simp/simplib` or `simp-simplib`, will
return whether or not that *specific* module exists.

Returns: `Boolean` Whether or not the module exists in the current environment

##### `module_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The module name to check

### simplib::nets2cidr

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Take an input list of networks and returns an equivalent `Array` in
CIDR notation.

* Hostnames are passed through untouched.
* Terminates catalog compilation if any input item is not a
  valid network or hostname.

#### `simplib::nets2cidr(String $network_list)`

The simplib::nets2cidr function.

Returns: `Array[String]` Array of networks in CIDR notation

##### `network_list`

Data type: `String`

List of 1 or more networks separated by spaces,
commas, or semicolons

#### `simplib::nets2cidr(Array $networks)`

The simplib::nets2cidr function.

Returns: `Array[String]` Array of networks in CIDR notation

##### `networks`

Data type: `Array`

Array of networks

### simplib::nets2ddq

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Tranforms a list of networks into an equivalent array in
dotted quad notation.

* CIDR networks are converted to dotted quad notation networks.
  IP addresses and hostnames are left untouched.
* Terminates catalog compilation if any input item is not a
  valid network or hostname.

#### `simplib::nets2ddq(Array $networks)`

The simplib::nets2ddq function.

Returns: `Array[String]` Converted input

##### `networks`

Data type: `Array`

The networks to convert

#### `simplib::nets2ddq(String $networks_string)`

The simplib::nets2ddq function.

Returns: `Array[String]` Converted input

##### `networks_string`

Data type: `String`

String containing the list of networks to
convert; list elements are separated by spaces, commas or semicolons.

### simplib::parse_hosts

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Convert an `Array` of items that may contain port numbers or protocols
into a structured `Hash` of host information.

* Works with Hostnames as well as IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
* IPv6 addresses will be returned normalized with square brackets
  around them for clarity.
* Terminates catalog compilation if

    * A valid network or hostname cannot be extracted from all input items.
    * Any input item that contains a port specifies an invalid port.

#### `simplib::parse_hosts(Array[String[1],1] $hosts)`

Convert an `Array` of items that may contain port numbers or protocols
into a structured `Hash` of host information.

* Works with Hostnames as well as IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
* IPv6 addresses will be returned normalized with square brackets
  around them for clarity.
* Terminates catalog compilation if

    * A valid network or hostname cannot be extracted from all input items.
    * Any input item that contains a port specifies an invalid port.

Returns: `Hash` Structured Hash of the host information

Raises:
* `if` a valid network or hostname cannot be extracted from all input items
* `if` any input item that contains a port specifies an invalid port

##### `hosts`

Data type: `Array[String[1],1]`

Array of host entries, where each entry may contain
a protocol or both a protocol and port

### simplib::passgen

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Generates/retrieves a random password string or its hash for a
passed identifier.

* Uses `Puppet.settings[:vardir]/simp/environments/$environment/simp_autofiles/gen_passwd/`
  as the destination directory for password storage.
* The minimum length password that this function will return is `8`
  characters.
* Terminates catalog compilation if the password storage directory
  cannot be created/accessed by the Puppet user, the password cannot
  be created in the allotted time, or files not owned by the Puppet
  user are present in the password storage directory.

#### `simplib::passgen(String[1] $identifier, Optional[Hash] $modifier_hash)`

Generates/retrieves a random password string or its hash for a
passed identifier.

* Uses `Puppet.settings[:vardir]/simp/environments/$environment/simp_autofiles/gen_passwd/`
  as the destination directory for password storage.
* The minimum length password that this function will return is `8`
  characters.
* Terminates catalog compilation if the password storage directory
  cannot be created/accessed by the Puppet user, the password cannot
  be created in the allotted time, or files not owned by the Puppet
  user are present in the password storage directory.

Returns: `String` Password or password hash specified. If no
`modifier_hash` or an invalid `modifier_hash` is provided,
it will return the currently stored/generated password.

##### `identifier`

Data type: `String[1]`

Unique `String` to identify the password usage.

##### `modifier_hash`

Data type: `Optional[Hash]`

Options `Hash`. May include any
of the following options:
* `last` => `false`(*) or `true`
     * Return the last generated password
* `length` => `Integer`
     * Length of the new password
* `hash` => `false`(*), `true`, `md5`, `sha256` (true), `sha512`
     * Return a `Hash` of the password instead of the password itself
* `complexity` => `0`(*), `1`, `2`
     * `0` => Use only Alphanumeric characters in your password (safest)
     * `1` => Add reasonably safe symbols
     * `2` => Printable ASCII
**private options:**
* `password` => contains the string representation of the password to hash (used for testing)
* `salt` => contains the string literal salt to use (used for testing)
* `complex_only` => use only the characters explicitly added by the complexity rules (used for testing)

### simplib::rand_cron

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Transforms an input string to one or more interval values for `cron`.
 This can be used to avoid starting a certain cron job at the same
 time on all servers.

#### `simplib::rand_cron(String $modifier, RandCronAlgorithm $algorithm, Optional[Integer[1]] $occurs, Optional[Integer[1]] $max_value)`

Transforms an input string to one or more interval values for `cron`.
 This can be used to avoid starting a certain cron job at the same
 time on all servers.

Returns: `Array[Integer]` Array of integers suitable for use in the
``minute`` or ``hour`` cron field.

##### `modifier`

Data type: `String`

The input string to use as the basis for the generated values.

##### `algorithm`

Data type: `RandCronAlgorithm`

Randomization algorithm to apply to transform the input string.

When 'sha256', a random number generated from the input string
via sha256 is used as the basis for the returned values.
If the input string is an IP address, this algorithm works well to
create cron job intervals for multiple hosts, when the number
of hosts is less than the `max_value` or the hosts do not have
linearly-assigned IP addresses.

When 'ip_mod' and the input string is an IP address, the modulus
of the numeric IP is used as the basis for the returned values.
This algorithm works well to create cron job intervals for
multiple hosts, when the number of hosts exceeds the `max_value`
and the hosts have linearly-assigned IP addresses.

When 'ip_mod' and the input string is not an IP address, for
backward compatibility,  the crc32 of the input string will
be used as the basis for the returned values.

When 'crc32', the crc32 of the input string will be used as the
basis for the returned values.

##### `occurs`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[1]]`

The occurrence within an interval, i.e., the number of values to
be generated for the interval. Defaults to `1`.

##### `max_value`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[1]]`

The maximum value for the interval.  The values generated will
be in the inclusive range [0, max_value]. Defaults to `60` for
use in the `minute` cron field.

### simplib::strip_ports

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Extract list of unique hostnames and/or IP addresses from an `Array`
of hosts, each of which may may contain protocols and/or port numbers

Terminates catalog compilation if

* A valid network or hostname cannot be extracted from all input items.
* Any input item that contains a port specifies an invalid port.

#### `simplib::strip_ports(Array[String[1],1] $hosts)`

Extract list of unique hostnames and/or IP addresses from an `Array`
of hosts, each of which may may contain protocols and/or port numbers

Terminates catalog compilation if

* A valid network or hostname cannot be extracted from all input items.
* Any input item that contains a port specifies an invalid port.

Returns: `Array[String]` Non-port portion of hostnames

Raises:
* `if` any input item that contains a port specifies an invalid port

##### `hosts`

Data type: `Array[String[1],1]`

List of hosts which may contain protocols and port numbers.

### simplib::to_integer

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Converts the argument into an `Integer`.

Terminates catalog compilation if the argument's class
does not respond to the `to_i()` Ruby method.

#### `simplib::to_integer(Any $input)`

Converts the argument into an `Integer`.

Terminates catalog compilation if the argument's class
does not respond to the `to_i()` Ruby method.

Returns: `Integer` Converted input

Raises:
* `if` ``input`` does not implement a ``to_i()`` method

##### `input`

Data type: `Any`

The argument to convert into an `Integer`

### simplib::to_string

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Converts the argument into a `String`.

#### `simplib::to_string(Any $input)`

Converts the argument into a `String`.

Returns: `String` Converted input

##### `input`

Data type: `Any`

The argument to convert into a `String`

### simplib::validate_array_member

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Validate that an single input is a member of another `Array` or an
`Array` input is a subset of another `Array`.

* The comparison can optionally ignore the case of `String` elements.
* Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

#### `simplib::validate_array_member(Variant[SimpleTypes,Array[SimpleTypes]] $input, Array[SimpleTypes] $target, Optional[Enum['i']] $modifier)`

Validate that an single input is a member of another `Array` or an
`Array` input is a subset of another `Array`.

* The comparison can optionally ignore the case of `String` elements.
* Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

Returns: `Nil`

Raises:
* `if` validation fails

##### `input`

Data type: `Variant[SimpleTypes,Array[SimpleTypes]]`

Input to find within the target

##### `target`

Data type: `Array[SimpleTypes]`



##### `modifier`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['i']]`

Modification to be made to the comparison
operation.  Currently, 'i', string case invariance is the only
supported modifier.

### simplib::validate_between

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Validate that the first value is between the second and third values
numerically. The range is inclusive.

Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

#### `simplib::validate_between(Variant[String[1],Numeric] $value, Numeric $min_value, Numeric $max_value)`

Validate that the first value is between the second and third values
numerically. The range is inclusive.

Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

Returns: `Nil`

Raises:
* `if` validation fails

##### `value`

Data type: `Variant[String[1],Numeric]`

Value to validate

##### `min_value`

Data type: `Numeric`

Minimum value that is valid

##### `max_value`

Data type: `Numeric`

Maximum value that is valid

### simplib::validate_bool

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Validate that all passed values are either `true`, 'true',
`false` or 'false'.

Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

#### `simplib::validate_bool(Variant[String,Boolean] *$values_to_validate)`

Validate that all passed values are either `true`, 'true',
`false` or 'false'.

Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

Returns: `Nil`

Raises:
* `if` validation fails

##### `*values_to_validate`

Data type: `Variant[String,Boolean]`

One or more values to validate

### simplib::validate_deep_hash

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Perform a deep validation on two passed `Hashes`.

* All keys must be defined in the reference `Hash` that is being
  validated against.
* Unknown keys in the `Hash` being compared will cause a failure in
  validation
* All values in the final leaves of the 'reference 'Hash' must
  be a String, Boolean, or nil.
* All values in the final leaves of the `Hash` being compared must
  support a to_s() method.
* Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

#### `simplib::validate_deep_hash(Hash $reference, Hash $to_check)`

Perform a deep validation on two passed `Hashes`.

* All keys must be defined in the reference `Hash` that is being
  validated against.
* Unknown keys in the `Hash` being compared will cause a failure in
  validation
* All values in the final leaves of the 'reference 'Hash' must
  be a String, Boolean, or nil.
* All values in the final leaves of the `Hash` being compared must
  support a to_s() method.
* Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

Returns: `Nil`

Raises:
* `if` validation fails

##### `reference`

Data type: `Hash`

Hash to validate against. Keys at all levels of
the hash define the structure of the hash and the value at each
final leaf in the hash tree contains a regular expression string,
a boolean or nil for value validation:

* When the validation value is a regular expression string,
  the string representation of the to_check value (from the
  to_s() method) will be compared to the regular expression
  contained in the reference string.

* When the validation value is a Boolean, the string
  representation of the to_check value will be compared
  with the string representation of the Boolean (as provided
  by the to_s() method).

* When the validation value is a `nil` or 'nil', no value
  validation will be done for the key.

* When the to_check value contains an `Array` of values for a
  key, the validation for that key will be applied to each
  element in that array.

##### `to_check`

Data type: `Hash`

Hash to be validated against the reference

### simplib::validate_net_list

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Validate that a passed list (`Array` or single `String`) of networks
is filled with valid IP addresses, network addresses (CIDR notation),
or hostnames.

* Hostnames are checked per RFC 1123.
* Ports appended with # a colon `:` are allowed for hostnames and
  individual IP addresses.
* Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

#### `simplib::validate_net_list(String $net, Optional[String] $str_match)`

The simplib::validate_net_list function.

Returns: `Nil`

##### `net`

Data type: `String`

Single network to be validated.

##### `str_match`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Stringified regular expression (regex without
the `//` delimiters)

#### `simplib::validate_net_list(Array[String] $net_list, Optional[String] $str_match)`

The simplib::validate_net_list function.

Returns: `Nil`

##### `net_list`

Data type: `Array[String]`

`Array` of networks to be validated.

##### `str_match`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Stringified regular expression (regex without
the `//` delimiters)

### simplib::validate_port

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Validates whether each passed argument contains valid port(s).

* Each element of each argument must, numerically, be in the
  range [1, 65535].
* Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

#### `simplib::validate_port(Variant[String[1],Integer,StringOrIntegerArray] *$port_args)`

Validates whether each passed argument contains valid port(s).

* Each element of each argument must, numerically, be in the
  range [1, 65535].
* Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

Returns: `Nil`

Raises:
* `if` validation fails

##### `*port_args`

Data type: `Variant[String[1],Integer,StringOrIntegerArray]`

Arguments each of which contain either an
individual port or an array of ports.

### simplib::validate_re_array

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Perform simple validation of a `String`, or `Array` of `Strings`,
against one or more regular expressions.

* Derived from the Puppet Labs stdlib validate_re.
* Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

#### `simplib::validate_re_array(String $input, String $regex, Optional[String] $err_msg)`

The simplib::validate_re_array function.

Returns: `Nil`

##### `input`

Data type: `String`

String to be validated

##### `regex`

Data type: `String`

Stringified regex expression (regex without the `//`
delimiters)

##### `err_msg`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Optional error message to emit upon failure

#### `simplib::validate_re_array(String $input, Array $regex_list, Optional[String] $err_msg)`

The simplib::validate_re_array function.

Returns: `Nil`

##### `input`

Data type: `String`

String to be validated

##### `regex_list`

Data type: `Array`

Array of stringified regex expressions (
regexes without the `//` delimiters)

##### `err_msg`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Optional error message to emit upon failure

#### `simplib::validate_re_array(Array $inputs, String $regex, Optional[String] $err_msg)`

The simplib::validate_re_array function.

Returns: `Nil`

##### `inputs`

Data type: `Array`

Array of strings to be validated

##### `regex`

Data type: `String`

Stringified regex expression (regex without the `//`
delimiters)

##### `err_msg`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Optional error message to emit upon failure

#### `simplib::validate_re_array(Array $inputs, Array $regex_list, Optional[String] $err_msg)`

The simplib::validate_re_array function.

Returns: `Nil`

##### `inputs`

Data type: `Array`

Array of strings to be validated

##### `regex_list`

Data type: `Array`

Array of stringified regex expressions (
regexes without the `//` delimiters)

##### `err_msg`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Optional error message to emit upon failure

### simplib::validate_sysctl_value

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Validate that the passed value is correct for the passed `sysctl` key.

* If a key is not known, assumes the value is valid.
* Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

#### `simplib::validate_sysctl_value(String $key, NotUndef $value)`

Validate that the passed value is correct for the passed `sysctl` key.

* If a key is not known, assumes the value is valid.
* Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

Returns: `Nil`

Raises:
* `upon` validation failure

##### `key`

Data type: `String`

sysctl setting whose value is to be validated

##### `value`

Data type: `NotUndef`

Value to be validated

### simplib::validate_uri_list

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Validate that a passed list (`Array` or single `String`) of URIs is
valid according to Ruby's URI parser.

* *Caution*:  No scheme (protocol type) validation is done if the
   `scheme_list` parameter is not set.
* Terminates catalog compilation if validation fails.

#### `simplib::validate_uri_list(String[1] $uri, Optional[Array[String]] $scheme_list)`

The simplib::validate_uri_list function.

Returns: `Nil`

##### `uri`

Data type: `String[1]`

URI to be validated.

##### `scheme_list`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String]]`

List of schemes (protocol types) allowed for the URI.

#### `simplib::validate_uri_list(Array[String[1],1] $uri_list, Optional[Array[String]] $scheme_list)`

The simplib::validate_uri_list function.

Returns: `Nil`

##### `uri_list`

Data type: `Array[String[1],1]`

1 or more URIs to be validated.

##### `scheme_list`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String]]`

List of schemes (protocol types) allowed for the URI.

### simplib_deprecation

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Function to print deprecation warnings for 3.X functions.
The first argument is the uniqueness key, which allows deduping of messages.
The second argument is the message to be printed.
Messages can be enabled if the SIMPLIB_LOG_DEPRECATIONS environment
variable is set to 'true'.

#### `simplib_deprecation()`

Function to print deprecation warnings for 3.X functions.
The first argument is the uniqueness key, which allows deduping of messages.
The second argument is the message to be printed.
Messages can be enabled if the SIMPLIB_LOG_DEPRECATIONS environment
variable is set to 'true'.

Returns: `Nil`

### slice_array

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Split an `Array` into an array of arrays that contain groupings of
`max_length` size. This is similar to `each_slice` in newer versions of
Ruby.

#### `slice_array(Array $to_slice, Integer $max_length, String[1,1] $split_char)`

Split an `Array` into an array of arrays that contain groupings of
`max_length` size. This is similar to `each_slice` in newer versions of
Ruby.

Returns: `Array[Array[Any]` Array[Array[Any]

##### `to_slice`

Data type: `Array`

The array to slice. This will be flattened if necessary.

##### `max_length`

Data type: `Integer`

The maximum length of each slice.

##### `split_char`

Data type: `String[1,1]`

An optional character upon which to count sub-elements as multiples.
Only one per subelement is supported.

### strip_ports

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Take an `Array` of items that may contain port numbers and appropriately
return the non-port portion. Works with hostnames, IPv4, and IPv6.

#### `strip_ports(Array[String] $hosts)`

Take an `Array` of items that may contain port numbers and appropriately
return the non-port portion. Works with hostnames, IPv4, and IPv6.

Returns: `Array[Str` Array[Str

##### `hosts`

Data type: `Array[String]`

`Array` of hostnames which may contain port numbers.

### to_integer

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Converts the argument into an `Integer`.

Only works if the passed argument responds to the `to_i()` Ruby method.

#### `to_integer(Any $input)`

Converts the argument into an `Integer`.

Only works if the passed argument responds to the `to_i()` Ruby method.

Returns: `Any` [

##### `input`

Data type: `Any`

The argument to convert into an `Integer`

### to_string

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Converts the argument into a `String`.

Only works if the passed argument responds to the `to_s()` Ruby method.

#### `to_string(Any $input)`

Converts the argument into a `String`.

Only works if the passed argument responds to the `to_s()` Ruby method.

Returns: `Any`

##### `input`

Data type: `Any`

The argument to convert into a `String`

### validate_array_member

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Validate that the first `String` (or `Array`) passed is a member of the
second `Array` passed. An optional third argument of i can be passed,
which ignores the case of the objects inside the `Array`.

#### `validate_array_member()`

Validate that the first `String` (or `Array`) passed is a member of the
second `Array` passed. An optional third argument of i can be passed,
which ignores the case of the objects inside the `Array`.

Returns: `Boolean`

### validate_array_of_hashes

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Validate that the passed argument is either an empty `Array` or an
`Array` that only contains `Hashes`.

#### `validate_array_of_hashes()`

Validate that the passed argument is either an empty `Array` or an
`Array` that only contains `Hashes`.

Returns: `Boolean`

### validate_between

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Validate that the first value is between the second and third values
numerically.

This is a pure Ruby comparison, **not** a human comparison.

#### `validate_between()`

Validate that the first value is between the second and third values
numerically.

This is a pure Ruby comparison, **not** a human comparison.

Returns: `Boolean`

### validate_bool_simp

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Validate that all passed values are either `true` or `false`.

Abort catalog compilation if any value fails this check.

Modified from the stdlib validate_bool to handle the strings `true` and
`false`.

#### `validate_bool_simp()`

Validate that all passed values are either `true` or `false`.

Abort catalog compilation if any value fails this check.

Modified from the stdlib validate_bool to handle the strings `true` and
`false`.

Returns: `Nil`

### validate_deep_hash

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Perform a deep validation on two passed `Hashes`.

The first `Hash` is the one to validate against, and the second is the
one being validated. The first `Hash` (i.e. the source) exists to define
a valid structure and potential regular expression to validate against, or
`nil` top skip an entry.

`Arrays` of values will match each entry to the given regular expression.

All keys must be defined in the source `Hash` that is being validated
against.

Unknown keys in the `Hash` being compared will cause a failure in
validation

#### `validate_deep_hash()`

Perform a deep validation on two passed `Hashes`.

The first `Hash` is the one to validate against, and the second is the
one being validated. The first `Hash` (i.e. the source) exists to define
a valid structure and potential regular expression to validate against, or
`nil` top skip an entry.

`Arrays` of values will match each entry to the given regular expression.

All keys must be defined in the source `Hash` that is being validated
against.

Unknown keys in the `Hash` being compared will cause a failure in
validation

Returns: `Nil`

### validate_float

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Validates whether or not the passed argument is a float

#### `validate_float()`

Validates whether or not the passed argument is a float

Returns: `N` N

### validate_integer

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Validates that the passed argument is an `Integer`.

#### `validate_integer()`

Validates that the passed argument is an `Integer`.

Returns: `N` N

### validate_macaddress

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Validate that all passed values are valid MAC addresses.

#### `validate_macaddress()`

Validate that all passed values are valid MAC addresses.

Returns: `Nil`

### validate_net_list

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Validate that a passed list (`Array` or single `String`) of networks is
filled with valid IP addresses or hostnames. Hostnames are checked per
RFC 1123. Ports appended with a colon `:` are allowed.

There is a second, optional argument that is a regex of `Strings` that
should be ignored from the list. Omit the beginning and ending `/`
delimiters.

#### `validate_net_list()`

Validate that a passed list (`Array` or single `String`) of networks is
filled with valid IP addresses or hostnames. Hostnames are checked per
RFC 1123. Ports appended with a colon `:` are allowed.

There is a second, optional argument that is a regex of `Strings` that
should be ignored from the list. Omit the beginning and ending `/`
delimiters.

Returns: `Nil`

### validate_port

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Validates whether or not the passed argument is a valid port
(i.e. between `1` - `65535`).

#### `validate_port()`

Validates whether or not the passed argument is a valid port
(i.e. between `1` - `65535`).

Returns: `N` N

### validate_re_array

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Perform simple validation of a `String`, or `Array` of `Strings`,
against one or more regular expressions. The first argument of
this function should be a `String` to test, and the second argument
should be a stringified regular expression (without the `//`
delimiters) or an `Array` of regular expressions.  If none of the regular
expressions match the string passed in, compilation will abort with a parse
error.

If a third argument is specified, this will be the error message raised and
seen by the user.

#### `validate_re_array()`

Perform simple validation of a `String`, or `Array` of `Strings`,
against one or more regular expressions. The first argument of
this function should be a `String` to test, and the second argument
should be a stringified regular expression (without the `//`
delimiters) or an `Array` of regular expressions.  If none of the regular
expressions match the string passed in, compilation will abort with a parse
error.

If a third argument is specified, this will be the error message raised and
seen by the user.

Returns: `Nil`

### validate_sysctl_value

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Validate that the passed value is correct for the passed `sysctl` key.

If a key is not known, simply returns that the value is valid.

#### `validate_sysctl_value()`

Validate that the passed value is correct for the passed `sysctl` key.

If a key is not known, simply returns that the value is valid.

Returns: `Nil`

### validate_umask

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Validate that the passed `String` is a valid `umask`

#### `validate_umask()`

Validate that the passed `String` is a valid `umask`

Returns: `Nil`

### validate_uri_list

Type: Ruby 3.x API

Usage: validate_uri_list([LIST],[<VALID_SCHEMES>])

Validate that a passed list (`Array` or single `String`) of URIs is
valid according to Ruby's URI parser.

#### `validate_uri_list()`

Usage: validate_uri_list([LIST],[<VALID_SCHEMES>])

Validate that a passed list (`Array` or single `String`) of URIs is
valid according to Ruby's URI parser.

Returns: `Nil`

